Regen ledger v3.0 Upgrade Proposal (#8)
regen-network/governance: proposals/2022-02-regen-ledger-v3.0-upgrade/README.md

Validators and node operators can refer to the [v3.0 migration documentation](TBD) for guidelines on performing the upgrade.

## Background

With the [cosmos carbonZERO earth program](https://earthstate.ixo.world/zero/), and other Cosmos ecosystem demand for carbon credits on the rise, the RND Inc team feels it is important for ecocredits to have the ability to be exported to the interchain world.

The current demand for carbon offsets from Regen Ledger is estimated to be above 80,000 tons per year simply to offset the "Scope 1" emissions (validator infrastructure emissions) of the cosmos ecosystem at this moment, and this does not consider the potential for carbon credits to find other markets and uses beyond simply offsetting the blockchain infrastructure securing the internet of blockchains. We believe this will anchor Regen Network's utility and relationship with the larger internet of blockchains and is a significant next step for our community.

In order to meet this demand the RND Inc team is proposing an upgrade to Regen Ledger, the details of which are shared below.

## Regen Ledger v3.0

> Regen Ledger v3.0 updates the ecocredit module to include basket functionality, enabling the aggregation of heterogeneous ecosystem service credits into baskets. Credits from different credit classes and batches that meet a defined criteria can be deposited within a basket in exchange for basket tokens. The basket tokens are fully fungible with other tokens from the same basket, and are tracked in the standard Bank module, which means these assets will be made visible in wallets like Keplr, and also able to be transfered via IBC to other chains in the Cosmos ecosystem. Each basket token can later be redeemed for an underlying ecocredit from the given basket, and the ecocredits received may be retired by the account receiving them (for offseting emissions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regen Ledger v3.0 updates the ecocredit module to include basket functionality, enabling the aggregation of heterogeneous ecosystem service credits into baskets. Credits from different credit classes and batches that meet a defined criteria can be deposited within a basket in exchange for basket tokens. The basket tokens are fully fungible with other tokens from the same basket, and are tracked in the standard Bank module, which means these assets will be made visible in wallets like Keplr, and also able to be transferred via IBC to other chains in the Cosmos ecosystem. Each basket token can later be redeemed for an underlying ecocredit from the given basket, and the ecocredits received may be retired by the account receiving them (for offsetting emissions).
```

For more information about the full specification for basket functionality, see the [basket specification](https://github.com/regen-network/regen-ledger/blob/master/rfcs/002-baskets-specification.md).

With the recent solidification of the [NCT standard](https://docs.toucan.earth/protocol/pool/pool-parties/nct-pool-party-report), we are proposing an accelerated timeline for the baskets module to bring NCT's into the Cosmos ecosystem.

Regen Ledger v3.0 includes a scoped-down, minimum-viable basket implementation with the intention to bring IBC compliant carbon credits to the interchain. 

The MVP version of baskets proposed in Regen Ledger v3.0 differs from the full specification in the RFC above in that:

> - `BasketCritera` is restricted to only allow for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `BasketCritera` is restricted to only allow for:
  - A credit type
```

  - A list of credit classes

>   - A recency filter reprsented either as a fixed minimum batch start date, or a rolling recency window (e.g. batch start date must be within the last 6 months)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - A recency filter represented either as a fixed minimum batch start date, or a rolling recency window (e.g. batch start date must be within the last 6 months)
```

> - Retreiving ecocredits from a basket can only be done via `Take`, not `Pick`. All calls of `Take` will always retreive the oldest ecocredits first (by batch start date), ensuring the basket flushes out old credits over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Retrieving ecocredits from a basket can only be done via `Take`, not `Pick`. All calls of `Take` will always retrieve the oldest ecocredits first (by batch start date), ensuring the basket flushes out old credits over time.
```
